# new_project
#CARDIOVISION: REAL-TIME ECG IMAGE-BASED HEART DISEASE DETECTION USING DEEP LEARNING
Dataset ECG: https://data.mendeley.com/datasets/gwbz3fsgp8/2 
save it in folder name as : "ECG_data"

Cardiovascular diseases (CVD) are global health concerns that can be reduced through early prevention and improved patient risk assessment and treatment. Early detection of CVD is critical for saving lives and reducing mortality rates. This project is primarily focused on introducing an innovative approach to CVD detection deep learning techniques for image analysis. A widely available dataset from Mendeley was utilized for model training, aiming to enhance the precision of heart disease detection.
The primary steps of this project involve segmenting ECG's 12 leads, including preprocessing, colour noise removal, grayscale conversion, and segmenting into 12 distinct lead images. Each lead image corresponds to specific ECG leads (I, II, III, AvF, AvR) and is categorized into different classes of Normal and abnormal, Myocardial Infarction Patients, and History of Myocardial Infarction. The deep learning model demonstrated impressive results with a loss of 0.3203 and an accuracy rate of 90.21%. Furthermore, the precision, recall, and F1-score consistently exceeded 0.85 across all categories, underscoring the model's efficacy in disease classification. The main feature of this project includes a user-friendly web-app interface, facilitating the swift upload and analysis of ECG images by patients and healthcare officials, prioritizing ethical data handling, and improving healthcare accessibility. The objective is to enable early detection, efficient clinical decision-making, and a significant reduction in CVD-related mortality rates. 
